Stephanie K. Ananth (sananth)

Organize Your Music
http://organizeyourmusic.playlistmachinery.com/
This is a web app made by Paul Lamere (who happens to be the same person who made Spotipy) that can go through (up to) a Spotify User's entire music library, which can be composed of thousands of songs. The way that Spotify classifies music is also not conducive to this type of approach since songs do not have a single genre they are associated with, but have a list of genres (in alphabetical order). Organize Your Music finds the most common genres among your library and attempts to sort through your music in that way. However, it can only display 100 songs at a time and often finds over half of a user's library to contain the same genre, so it is tedious to click through pages and pages of songs. This is what computers ought to minimize. In addition, Organize Your Music displays far too many meaningless statistics such as acousticness and liveliness. At first, it is really interesting to get so much data about a user's library and to be able to create grouped playlists based on all these different factors, but it quickly becomes boring, confusing, and tedious. The charts and graphs that can be made on the website are very fun to play with, but are difficult to pull any interpretations from as they quickly become confusing due to the sheer amount of data.

In my program, I will be attempting to a very similar thing to Lamere and organize a user's music; however, I will be using the limitations of spotipy to my advantage, as it cannot analyze an entire user's music library, but only a subset of it. I plan on using a user's top 100-150 songs and/or up to their top 150 artists. This should be perfectly customized to the user and give them access to interesting statistics (such as genre), but in a much more mangeable, understandable, and aesthetically pleasing way. Limiting the amount of music to that which the user already likes will create a more simple and much more meaningful display.


Playlist Manager
http://playlist-manager.com/
This is a webapp for the desktop Chrome Browser created by Eduardo Gatto Moreira Lima that "merges the songs of selected playlists into one view, allowing you to easily add and remove songs from different playlists." This is only somewhat useful for users with many playlists to somewhat easily organize them. It is not very user-friendly and is confusing to use and understand. 

It also is not conducive to creating new playlists or organizing music from a user's library into playlists, but rather to organizing music in existing playlists. My program may be able to benefit from the tabular view of songs, but I will implement it in a more meaningful and user-friendly way. I also am more interested in the creation of playlists and organizing music into new playlists instead of reorganizing music from within and among playlists.


Spotify Playlist Miner
http://playlistminer.playlistmachinery.com/
This is another web app created by Paul Lamere that "aggregates the top tracks fromt he most popular public playlists on Spotify that match [a user's] search criteria" and is able to create playlists for users. This uses crowdsourcing to make a good playlist for a user.

In my program, my focus is primarily on creating a custom, tailored playlist for the user that is based off of their individual favorite songs and artists. However, a feature I plan to implement is to create playlists of an artist's top tracks, which is based on data that Spotify has collected from millions of users and aggregated. The difference is the amount of control a user has over his or her playlist. While user can still add or remove music from their playlist using the Playlist Miner, in my program, the user will be able to use primarily their own data (and some of Spotify's general data) to create completely custom playlists that they have complete control over, forgoing the tediousness of playlist compiling.


Klangspektrum
http://www.klangspektrum.digital/
Klangspektrum is a web app created by Michael Schwarz that analyzes and visualizes a user's Spotify data, but it is unclear exactly how it is grouping and displaying data. The interface is very aesthetically pleasing, but it is also very confusing since his data points are moving and not clearly labeled. It is a pretty site, but it is difficult to understand what his charts mean and even are displaying.

While I think simplicity is incredibly important, I think Schwarz may have taken it a bit too far without data labels or any sort of data interpretation other than floating colored bubbles. Upon further investigation of what the bubbles are displaying, they seem to be illustrating the same data that cluttered Lamere's Organize Your Music. My goal is to use data to simplify a user's music rather than complicate it, and to display this data in a way that makes sense and is helpful.


Your Top Songs 2016
At the end of almost every year, Spotify will share with their users a small bit of the massive amounts of data they have collected on them throughout the year. In January of 2017, Spotify relased an individualized playlist for every user entitled 'Your Top Songs 2016.' This playlist was a compilation of the songs that the user had listened to most over the past year.

This is similar to what my goal is in my project, but for 'Your Top Song 2016,' Spotify made the playlists, and users are not able to edit or customize them to their liking. My goal is my program to be much more user-centered and allow them to have full control over their data and playlists by not overwhelming them by vast amounts of data but by enabling them to use their data in a simple and intuitive manner. 
